# FILE-INTEGRITY-CHECKER

*COMPANY*: CODETECH IT SOLUTIONS

*NAME*: SRINIDHI LALAM

*INTERN ID*: CT04DF450

*DOMAIN*: CYBER SECURITY AND ETHICAL HACKING

*DURATION*: 4 WEEKS

*MENTOR*: NEELA SANTOSH

*DESCRIPTION*: The File Integrity Checker is a Python-based tool developed to detect unauthorized or unintended changes in files by calculating and comparing their cryptographic hash values. File integrity is a fundamental concept in cybersecurity, especially when it comes to monitoring sensitive systems, verifying backups, or ensuring that critical files have not been tampered with or corrupted. This tool provides a simple yet powerful way to track file modifications, additions, or deletions in any directory.

At the heart of this tool lies the concept of cryptographic hashing. A hash is a fixed-length string generated by applying a mathematical algorithm to input data (in this case, a file’s content). Even the slightest change in a file—adding a single space or punctuation—results in a completely different hash value. This characteristic makes hashing ideal for verifying data integrity.

The tool uses the SHA-256 algorithm from Python’s built-in hashlib library, which produces a unique 64-character hexadecimal string for each file. SHA-256 is widely recognized for its robustness and resistance to collision attacks, making it suitable for integrity checks even in high-security environments.

*OUTPUT*: C:\Users\srini\OneDrive\Tasks\FileIntegrityChecker>python checker.py
Enter folder path to monitor: C:\Users\srini\OneDrive\Learn
[+] New file: C:\Users\srini\OneDrive\Learn\p1.py
[+] New file: C:\Users\srini\OneDrive\Learn\p2.py
